README.adoc, before:

:damian-krawczyk: https://damiankrawczyk.com[Damian Krawczyk]
:maciej-wrobel: https://www.linkedin.com/in/maciejwrobel[Maciej Wróbel]
:askaniusz-ferens: https://www.linkedin.com/in/asek-ferens[Askaniusz Ferens]
:lukasz-jankowski: https://www.linkedin.com/in/łukasz-jankowski-001793193[Łukasz Jankowski]
:jacek-kocyba: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacek-kocyba-49a5a2a0[Jacek Kocyba]
:jakub-plusczok: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jakubplusczok[Jakub Plusczok]
:slawomir-staciwa: https://www.linkedin.com/in/sstaciwa/[Sławomir Staciwa]

:lectures-timetable: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022#lectures-timetable[lectures timetable]
:passing-criteria: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022#passing-criteria[passing criteria]
:repository: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022[repository]
:repository-discussions: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022/discussions[discussions]
:repository-discussion-hello: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022/discussions/1[introduce yourself]


:toc: left
:toclevels: 1
:toc-title:
:sectanchors:
:icons: font
:table-stripes: hover
:nofooter:
:experimental:
:imagesdir: images
:docinfo1:
:revdate:       Last updated on {localdatetime}

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

= Cybersecurity: defense in modern organizations

image:https://img.shields.io/github/stars/crcep/cybersecurity?label=Stars%20from%20users&style=social[GitHub Repo stars,link="https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity"]

image::https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/83579804[CRC logo, 200, align="center"]

[quote, Cybersecurity stream]
The material presented in our lectures will let you prepare to put the first steps into the Cybersecurity domain from the corporate point of view. You will have a chance to listen, discuss and even take a part in a job performed by us on daily basis. If you are interested in Information Security and you want to broaden your knowledge in this field we invite you to meet us. +
We hope to see you at our lectures!

++++
<div>
<canvas id="bar-chart-horizontal" width="800" height="420"></canvas>
</div>

<script>
new Chart(document.getElementById("bar-chart-horizontal"), {
    type: 'bar',
    data: {
      labels: [
            "2019",
            "2021",
            "2022",
        ],
      datasets: [
        {
          label: "Signed-up",
          backgroundColor: ["#3e95cd", "#3e95cd","#3e95cd"],
          data: [
                36,
                53,
                124,
            ]
        },
        {
          label: "Passed entrance exam",
          backgroundColor: ["#8e5ea2", "#8e5ea2","#8e5ea2"],
          data: [
                25,
                39,
                98,
            ]
        },
        {
          label: "Attend classes",
          backgroundColor: ["#F8CF60", "#F8CF60","#F8CF60"],
          data: [
                23,
                39,
                0,
            ]
        },
        {
          label: "Passed final exam",
          backgroundColor: ["#EC5F3B", "#EC5F3B","#EC5F3B"],
          data: [
                11,
                31,
                0,
            ]
        },
        {
          label: "Certified",
          backgroundColor: ["#84C678", "#84C678","#84C678"],
          data: [
                11,
                31,
                0,
            ]
        }
      ]
    },
    options: {
      legend: { display: true },
      responsive: true,
    plugins: {
      title: {
        display: true,
        text: 'Cybersecurity lectures summary: 2019-2022'
      }
    }
    }
});
</script>
++++

[#2022]
== 2022

[cols=".^2,3",align="center"]
|===
| *Number of hours*     | `24 hours`
| *Number of meetings*  | `4 meetings, 4 Saturdays`
| *Form of meeting*     | `on-line`
| *Schedule*
a|
* `2022-03-19 09:00-16:00 +0100 (CET)` +
* `2022-03-26 09:00-16:00 +0100 (CET)` +
* `2022-04-02 09:00-16:00 +0200 (CEST)` +
* `2022-04-09 09:00-16:00 +0200 (CEST)`

|===

[cols="^.^1,.^10,.^6",align="center"]
|===
| ^|Topics              ^|Trainers

|{counter:index-2022}| Risk Management - basics
a|* {askaniusz-ferens}

|{counter:index-2022}| Cyber awareness
a|* {slawomir-staciwa}

|{counter:index-2022}| Identity and Access Management
a|* {jacek-kocyba}

|{counter:index-2022}| Cryptography - basics
a|* {jacek-kocyba}

|{counter:index-2022}| Secure Configuration Monitoring
a|* {maciej-wrobel}

|{counter:index-2022}| Password vaults
a|* Mateusz Kozieł

|{counter:index-2022}| Vulnerability Assessment
a|* {lukasz-jankowski}
* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2022}| Cloud Native Security
a|* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2022}| Offensive Cybersecurity
a|* {jakub-plusczok}
|===

[#2021]
== 2021

[cols="2,3",align="center"]
|===
| *Number of hours*     | `10 hours`
| *Number of meetings*  | `2 meetings, 2 Saturdays`
| *Form of meeting*     | `on-line`
|===

[cols="^.^1,.^10,.^6",align="center"]
|===
| ^|Topics              ^|Trainers

|{counter:index-2021}| Defensive Cyber Security
a|* {askaniusz-ferens}

|{counter:index-2021}| Technical State Compliance Monitoring
a|* {maciej-wrobel}

|{counter:index-2021}| Vulnerability Assessment
a|* {lukasz-jankowski}
* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2021}| Cloud Native Security
a|* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2021}| Secure Software Lifecycle
a|* {damian-krawczyk}
|===

[#feedback-2021]
=== feedback

Here are a few opinions from our training participants in *CRC'21*:

[quote, 2021 training participant 1]
Great course, thanks!

[quote, 2021 training participant 2]
It is a pity that the course only lasted two days. There was no time to bite into the topic :)

[quote, 2021 training participant 3]
Even more labs would be welcome ;)

[quote, 2021 training participant 4]
In my opinion more practical exercises would be better, also homework tasks would be welcome too.

[#2019]
== 2019

[cols="2,3",align="center"]
|===
| *Number of hours*     | `12 hours`
| *Number of meetings*  | `2 meetings, 2 Saturdays`
| *Form of meeting*     | `on-site`
|===

[cols="^.^1,.^10,.^6",align="center"]
|===
| ^|Topics              ^|Trainers

|{counter:index-2019}| Light Side of Security
a|* {askaniusz-ferens}
* {slawomir-staciwa}

|{counter:index-2019}| Brief introduction to CCERT & CTA responsibilities, Vulnerability Alerting Service, Responsible Disclosure Programme
a|* Jędrzej Maksym

|{counter:index-2019}| Phishing Employee Programme, Incident Response, Domain Monitoring
a|* Jędrzej Maksym

|{counter:index-2019}| Vulnerability Assessment
a|* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2019}| Vulnerability Detection Plugins
a|* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2019}| Technical State Compliance Monitoring
a|* {maciej-wrobel}
|===

[#feedback-2019]
=== feedback

Here are a few opinions from our training participants in *CRC'19*:

[quote, 2019 training participant 1]
It was very helpful to understand security principles.

[quote, 2019 training participant 2]
I really liked hearing the entire course finished in just two meetings and all the conversations during the breaks, so I think this is definitely what should stay.

[quote, 2019 training participant 3]
Such a course should be at the university as a subject throughout the whole semester. Too many interesting things to explain in 16h.

[quote, 2019 training participant 4]
I believe that the course should consist of more classes, as a consequence of which each topic would be discussed in more detail, which would translate into its better understanding and consolidation. The course was very interesting and I am glad to be able to take part in it.

[quote, 2019 training participant 5]
Two Saturdays is not enough. Ideally, for example, 6 Saturdays.

[#instruction]
== Instruction

[WARNING]
====
*Start following the instruction below only after receiving the invitation to GitHub organization via e-mail.*
====

1. Join `crcep` Organization at GitHub by clicking green button kbd:[Join @crcep] in the invitation message send to your e-mail address given during registration to Corporate Readiness Certificate Educational Program.

[NOTE]
====
Invitation will be send from noreply@github.com e-mail address as shown below.

image:crcep-invitation.png[]
====

[start=2]
2. Login using your GitHub account if you already heave it or create new GitHub account.

[WARNING]
====
If you decide to create new GitHub account you can use any e-mail address, but **remember to verify your e-mail address at GitHub**.

image:github-new-account.png[]
====

[start=3]
3. Go to https://github.com/settings/organizations[github.com/settings/organizations] and check if you see `crcep` organization on the list of organizations at GitHub to which you belong.

[WARNING]
====
If you don't see `crcep` on the list of organizations go back to invitation message mentioned in the first point and click again green button kbd:[Join @crcep].

You should see prompt to join CRC EP, click green button kbd:[Join CRC EP] as shown below.

image:crcep-join.png[]
====

[start=4]
4. Check rest of the details in GitHub *private* {repository} dedicated for these lectures.

[IMPORTANT]
====
*All communication will be send to you via GitHub notifications.* +
**Remember to click as shown below for this {repository}:**

* 👁 kbd:[Watch] > kbd:[All activity]
* ⭐️ kbd:[Star]

image:crcep-watch-star.png[]
====

[start=5]
5. Check {lectures-timetable} 🗓.

6. Check {passing-criteria} ✅.

7. Say hello 👋 to everyone and {repository-discussion-hello}.

8. Feel free to start new {repository-discussions}. Remember to tag appropriate group to make sure that they will receive notification about your post.

* `@crcep/cybersecurity-trainers-2022`
* `@crcep/cybersecurity-class-2022`

[TIP]
====
You can install GitHub app on your smartphone, go to https://github.com/mobile[github.com/mobile] to have even easier access to all information needed or to take a part in discussions.
====

Commit message:

satisfaction survey results from previous years

README.adoc, after:

:damian-krawczyk: https://damiankrawczyk.com[Damian Krawczyk]
:maciej-wrobel: https://www.linkedin.com/in/maciejwrobel[Maciej Wróbel]
:askaniusz-ferens: https://www.linkedin.com/in/asek-ferens[Askaniusz Ferens]
:lukasz-jankowski: https://www.linkedin.com/in/łukasz-jankowski-001793193[Łukasz Jankowski]
:jacek-kocyba: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacek-kocyba-49a5a2a0[Jacek Kocyba]
:jakub-plusczok: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jakubplusczok[Jakub Plusczok]
:slawomir-staciwa: https://www.linkedin.com/in/sstaciwa/[Sławomir Staciwa]

:lectures-timetable: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022#lectures-timetable[lectures timetable]
:passing-criteria: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022#passing-criteria[passing criteria]
:repository: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022[repository]
:repository-discussions: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022/discussions[discussions]
:repository-discussion-hello: https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity-2022/discussions/1[introduce yourself]


:toc: left
:toclevels: 1
:toc-title:
:sectanchors:
:icons: font
:table-stripes: hover
:nofooter:
:experimental:
:imagesdir: images
:docinfo1:
:revdate:       Last updated on {localdatetime}

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

= Cybersecurity: defense in modern organizations

image:https://img.shields.io/github/stars/crcep/cybersecurity?label=Stars%20from%20users&style=social[GitHub Repo stars,link="https://github.com/crcep/cybersecurity"]

image::https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/83579804[CRC logo, 200, align="center"]

[quote, Cybersecurity stream]
The material presented in our lectures will let you prepare to put the first steps into the Cybersecurity domain from the corporate point of view. You will have a chance to listen, discuss and even take a part in a job performed by us on daily basis. If you are interested in Information Security and you want to broaden your knowledge in this field we invite you to meet us. +
We hope to see you at our lectures!

++++
<div>
<canvas id="bar-chart-horizontal" width="800" height="420"></canvas>
</div>

<script>
new Chart(document.getElementById("bar-chart-horizontal"), {
    type: 'bar',
    data: {
      labels: [
            "2019",
            "2021",
            "2022",
        ],
      datasets: [
        {
          label: "Signed-up",
          backgroundColor: ["#3e95cd", "#3e95cd","#3e95cd"],
          data: [
                36,
                53,
                124,
            ]
        },
        {
          label: "Passed entrance exam",
          backgroundColor: ["#8e5ea2", "#8e5ea2","#8e5ea2"],
          data: [
                25,
                39,
                98,
            ]
        },
        {
          label: "Attend classes",
          backgroundColor: ["#F8CF60", "#F8CF60","#F8CF60"],
          data: [
                23,
                39,
                0,
            ]
        },
        {
          label: "Passed final exam",
          backgroundColor: ["#EC5F3B", "#EC5F3B","#EC5F3B"],
          data: [
                11,
                31,
                0,
            ]
        },
        {
          label: "Certified",
          backgroundColor: ["#84C678", "#84C678","#84C678"],
          data: [
                11,
                31,
                0,
            ]
        }
      ]
    },
    options: {
      legend: { display: true },
      responsive: true,
    plugins: {
      title: {
        display: true,
        text: 'Cybersecurity lectures summary: 2019-2022'
      }
    }
    }
});
</script>
++++

[#2022]
== 2022

[cols=".^2,3",align="center"]
|===
| *Number of hours*     | `24 hours`
| *Number of meetings*  | `4 meetings, 4 Saturdays`
| *Form of meeting*     | `on-line`
| *Schedule*
a|
* `2022-03-19 09:00-16:00 +0100 (CET)` +
* `2022-03-26 09:00-16:00 +0100 (CET)` +
* `2022-04-02 09:00-16:00 +0200 (CEST)` +
* `2022-04-09 09:00-16:00 +0200 (CEST)`

|===

[cols="^.^1,.^10,.^6",align="center"]
|===
| ^|Topics              ^|Trainers

|{counter:index-2022}| Risk Management - basics
a|* {askaniusz-ferens}

|{counter:index-2022}| Cyber awareness
a|* {slawomir-staciwa}

|{counter:index-2022}| Identity and Access Management
a|* {jacek-kocyba}

|{counter:index-2022}| Cryptography - basics
a|* {jacek-kocyba}

|{counter:index-2022}| Secure Configuration Monitoring
a|* {maciej-wrobel}

|{counter:index-2022}| Password vaults
a|* Mateusz Kozieł

|{counter:index-2022}| Vulnerability Assessment
a|* {lukasz-jankowski}
* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2022}| Cloud Native Security
a|* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2022}| Offensive Cybersecurity
a|* {jakub-plusczok}
|===

[#2021]
== 2021

[cols="2,3",align="center"]
|===
| *Number of hours*     | `10 hours`
| *Number of meetings*  | `2 meetings, 2 Saturdays`
| *Form of meeting*     | `on-line`
|===

[cols="^.^1,.^10,.^6",align="center"]
|===
| ^|Topics              ^|Trainers

|{counter:index-2021}| Defensive Cyber Security
a|* {askaniusz-ferens}

|{counter:index-2021}| Technical State Compliance Monitoring
a|* {maciej-wrobel}

|{counter:index-2021}| Vulnerability Assessment
a|* {lukasz-jankowski}
* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2021}| Cloud Native Security
a|* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2021}| Secure Software Lifecycle
a|* {damian-krawczyk}
|===

[#feedback-2021]
=== feedback

Here are some opinions from our training participants in *CRC'21*:

image::crc-cybersecurity-survey-2021.png[CRC Cybersecurity survey 2021, align="center"]

[quote, 2021 training participant 1]
Great course, thanks!

[quote, 2021 training participant 2]
It is a pity that the course only lasted two days. There was no time to bite into the topic :)

[quote, 2021 training participant 3]
Even more labs would be welcome ;)

[quote, 2021 training participant 4]
In my opinion more practical exercises would be better, also homework tasks would be welcome too.

[#2019]
== 2019

[cols="2,3",align="center"]
|===
| *Number of hours*     | `12 hours`
| *Number of meetings*  | `2 meetings, 2 Saturdays`
| *Form of meeting*     | `on-site`
|===

[cols="^.^1,.^10,.^6",align="center"]
|===
| ^|Topics              ^|Trainers

|{counter:index-2019}| Light Side of Security
a|* {askaniusz-ferens}
* {slawomir-staciwa}

|{counter:index-2019}| Brief introduction to CCERT & CTA responsibilities, Vulnerability Alerting Service, Responsible Disclosure Programme
a|* Jędrzej Maksym

|{counter:index-2019}| Phishing Employee Programme, Incident Response, Domain Monitoring
a|* Jędrzej Maksym

|{counter:index-2019}| Vulnerability Assessment
a|* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2019}| Vulnerability Detection Plugins
a|* {damian-krawczyk}

|{counter:index-2019}| Technical State Compliance Monitoring
a|* {maciej-wrobel}
|===

[#feedback-2019]
=== feedback

Here are some opinions from our training participants in *CRC'19*:

image::crc-cybersecurity-survey-2019.png[CRC Cybersecurity survey 2019, align="center"]

[quote, 2019 training participant 1]
It was very helpful to understand security principles.

[quote, 2019 training participant 2]
I really liked hearing the entire course finished in just two meetings and all the conversations during the breaks, so I think this is definitely what should stay.

[quote, 2019 training participant 3]
Such a course should be at the university as a subject throughout the whole semester. Too many interesting things to explain in 16h.

[quote, 2019 training participant 4]
I believe that the course should consist of more classes, as a consequence of which each topic would be discussed in more detail, which would translate into its better understanding and consolidation. The course was very interesting and I am glad to be able to take part in it.

[quote, 2019 training participant 5]
Two Saturdays is not enough. Ideally, for example, 6 Saturdays.

[#instruction]
== Instruction

[WARNING]
====
*Start following the instruction below only after receiving the invitation to GitHub organization via e-mail.*
====

1. Join `crcep` Organization at GitHub by clicking green button kbd:[Join @crcep] in the invitation message send to your e-mail address given during registration to Corporate Readiness Certificate Educational Program.

[NOTE]
====
Invitation will be send from noreply@github.com e-mail address as shown below.

image:crcep-invitation.png[]
====

[start=2]
2. Login using your GitHub account if you already heave it or create new GitHub account.

[WARNING]
====
If you decide to create new GitHub account you can use any e-mail address, but **remember to verify your e-mail address at GitHub**.

image:github-new-account.png[]
====

[start=3]
3. Go to https://github.com/settings/organizations[github.com/settings/organizations] and check if you see `crcep` organization on the list of organizations at GitHub to which you belong.

[WARNING]
====
If you don't see `crcep` on the list of organizations go back to invitation message mentioned in the first point and click again green button kbd:[Join @crcep].

You should see prompt to join CRC EP, click green button kbd:[Join CRC EP] as shown below.

image:crcep-join.png[]
====

[start=4]
4. Check rest of the details in GitHub *private* {repository} dedicated for these lectures.

[IMPORTANT]
====
*All communication will be send to you via GitHub notifications.* +
**Remember to click as shown below for this {repository}:**

* 👁 kbd:[Watch] > kbd:[All activity]
* ⭐️ kbd:[Star]

image:crcep-watch-star.png[]
====

[start=5]
5. Check {lectures-timetable} 🗓.

6. Check {passing-criteria} ✅.

7. Say hello 👋 to everyone and {repository-discussion-hello}.

8. Feel free to start new {repository-discussions}. Remember to tag appropriate group to make sure that they will receive notification about your post.

* `@crcep/cybersecurity-trainers-2022`
* `@crcep/cybersecurity-class-2022`

[TIP]
====
You can install GitHub app on your smartphone, go to https://github.com/mobile[github.com/mobile] to have even easier access to all information needed or to take a part in discussions.
====
